I don't know when I first began to build the wall. I suppose it was when 
it occurred to me that I could keep people out of my life by building a 
simple wall. The wall would be a kind of boundary - a kind of 
protection.

At first the little wall was only knee high. It was really quite 
attractive, made of native stones I had found in my life. The wall was 
so small that some people didn't notice it and would stumble right over 
it and fall flat on their faces. Others saw it but would step over it 
and come very close to me. I found this very uncomfortable. So I built 
the wall higher.

This higher wall was really much better, but I found that some people 
would come and rest their arms on the wall while they talked to me. Some 
stayed too long. And some were not my kind of people. And even when I 
edged the top of the wall with sharp stones, they didn't even seem to 
notice.

One day one of them vaulted over the wall and stood right inside. This 
*really* made me angry so I decided to build the wall higher. As I 
continued to build, I became more and more self-sufficient and soon, no 
one could see in or out.

But then I realized that no one had stopped by to talk for some time. 
Some walked by not seeming to notice me or my wall. Others stood sadly 
by and watched me build. I thought, "They're really jealous of my wall," 
and I *resented* them...all of them.

Some of my stones were so dear to me that I polished them carefully 
several times a day.

Then one day I realized the wall was so high that I no longer saw or 
heard anybody go by. "Is anyone there?" I yelled. There was no answer. 
It was dark and the air smelled bad. I stayed there for a long time. It 
was quiet and dark...and lonely. Only the whispers of my memories could 
be heard.

One day, someone yelled from the other side, "Your wall is ugly! It is 
twisted and gray and all out of shape!" Now, I didn't want to hear this. 
I *liked* my wall. In fact, some of the stones from which I had built it 
were very dear to me.

It was the day the flower fell at my feet that I began to cry. I ran to 
the wall and climbed to see who had thrown it over. By the time I 
reached the top, no one was there. I returned to the flower and sat for 
a long time looking at its perfection. I began to see the folly of my 
wall and its imperfection. Floods of tears brought me to my knees. "Oh, 
I am so alone. My wall is too high and too thick and too ugly... I have 
nothing left. Won't someone help me... please?"

Then a strange thing happened. Something inside me stirred like a 
remembrance of peaceful times passed. And in the stillness of my broken 
world I knew...that God was there, a blessed presence; that God would come to 
me, that my darkness had been penetrated by this blessed light. I stood 
in the joy of this presence. I knew that God had watched me build my 
wall and that God had waited patiently for me to see it was really a 
selfish waste of time.

Finally, it occurred to me that the Divine Creator could tell me why my 
wall was so ugly. It was when I began *to ask*, that God then began *to 
teach* me. God gave the stones names: "This stone is 'jealousy.' You 
must remove it."

Sometimes I would protest. This was one of my favorite stones! It was 
one I had saved and cherished for years. But when I was finally ready, 
God helped me remove that stone...and so it went, through stones named 
"envy", "disillusionment", "resentment", "childishness", "stubbornness", 
sometimes with God's help, sometimes with the help of strangers.

As we removed more stones, the light began to come in. I even felt a 
hand reaching through a small hole, trying to touch me.

Then there was a stranger who walked in one day and told me he had let 
God tear down his wall. I told him how I had suffered so and that I 
would never forget how forsaken and lonely I had felt inside my wall. 
"Yes," he said, "self-pity is a terrible thing." When he left, I found 
my stone of "self-pity" in my wall. And what do you know; it was wet 
with my tears. I dried it off and laid it with the other stones I had 
taken from the wall.

Overwhelmed by all God had done for me and all God had taught me, I 
stood on a large remaining stone and began to tell anyone who passed by 
what God had done for me. I was appalled that no one seemed to hear what 
I was saying. I noticed others working on their walls and ran over to 
plead with them to stop, but nobody would listen.

In my frustration, I lay face down on the stone I had stood upon. It was 
extremely large and highly polished...it was more than life-size. "Do 
you want the answer to your question?" God asked. "Raise your head, and 
look at the stone you are lying upon." I raised my head and caught my 
breath, for I saw my own reflection in the massive stone. Suddenly, I 
knew the stone's name: "Pride". Quietly, we removed it.

Then God said a strange thing. "Now you must go. I will go with you and 
yet, I will stay here." I protested to God by telling Him that there 
were still more stones to remove...I wanted Him here!

Then God answered. "I said I would go with you. Do you remember the 
flower that fell at your feet, the hand that came through the hole to 
touch you, the stranger who showed you your own self-pity?" Oh, yes, I 
thought to myself, oh, yes.

"Then you must go and do likewise. For to whom much is given, much is 
expected. Wherever you go, I'll go with you. And whenever you come back 
here to be tempted, or to remove more stones, I'll be here for you."

And so I went out. I saw the walls of others, and when I could, I threw 
a flower over, or reached my hand through a hole. Those walls were 
unbelievably ugly. I heard great sobs behind the walls and my heart 
ached. I even cried out to God one day, "Won't you please help this 
person?"

Later, I returned to my wall and God the "Blessed Presence" was there. 
Together we removed the stones of "fear", "mistrust", and 
"indifference".

Then God said, "Now you're beginning to understand love. Without love, 
the things I have told you would be meaningless. You will begin to live 
in peace and understanding of all those people around you whom you 
thought were not 'your kind'."

So it was, I went forth, reaching out...sometimes just waiting beside 
somebody's wall, sometimes tossing a flower, sometimes grabbing a hand 
through a hole in their wall.

Please bow your heads for 2 minutes of silent meditation.
